the tutu ballet is the epitome of what a
classical ballet company is about that
really clean exposed kind of work where
you can't hide it it's a completely
different spatial awareness in a tutu
what you're wearing really does change
the way you feel so romantic tutus
really quite light you have to be very
delicate and smooth because they move so
much
if you move quickly across the stage
part of your dress is left behind which
gives you the illusion that you're
floating or flying
whereas the pancake to to aesthetically
it's very symmetrical than almost Louis
- graphic tutus actually themselves
haven't changed that much over time and
a lot of the way they are made today is
the same 100 years ago some of the
tissues that we wear or 30 years old at
least
so you've got 30 years of wear 30 years
of sweat of different dancers
my first year in school
it's little tiny little white sparkly
and when I look back on it now even as a
four-year-old I sort of knew I had a job
to do when I put the two to one and you
do feel elegant when you wear a tutu so
it naturally reflects in your dancing
you put a two to one you feel like a
ballerina a basic two two will be forty
hours to make if they're decorated there
will be at least another 15 hours when
you think about it tutus are quite
strange but for us it really does become
second nature they sort of soften with
sweat and movement and mold to you and
they start to feel like a part of you
there's something useful about the way a
tutu adds another dimension to the
dancer as it tilts and moves without
covering any of the technique the one
thing that can be challenging about a
tutti you can't see anybody's feet but I
think two T's are probably more
difficult for partners to handle they
can't see your feet if the two T's are
particularly stiff making me getting to
to rush we have had blood drawn once or
twice with beading I think it was quite
controversial when they did start to
raise those hemorrhoids a little bit but
marriage I guess fashion but also the
development of the art form more
difficult steps so that you could
actually see what the dancers were doing
then finally reaching the Ballad
machinery era
powderpuff shape you can really see
everything that I've got arena does it's
what we want because we can work really
hard to be able to do these things and
in terms of pure classical ballet you
can really only do that in a tutu